maths is not a skill we're born with
even the smartest human has to learn how
to do sums we join a class of seven year
olds to see how it's done there we go
good seven plus three
the children are being tested on basic
maths problems but whereas Maggie's
seemed to pick up maths at the age of
six months these children have been
learning maths for three years at the
age four or five they'll start playing
with the numbers not necessarily adding
them together subtracting them it's more
just being able to identify one through
ten and as it progresses then they will
add them and subtract them save up till
part of the age of seven at seven years
old Maggie is the same age as many of
these children but already she's doing
division and multiplication so it seems
she might be ahead of them in maths I
think for multiplication and division to
truly understand it probably is fourth
grade which is almost nine or ten years
old is it possible the two Jack Russell
could be better at maths than these kids
to find out we have for the first time
in history a dog versus human maths
challenge first off it's simple addition
hey Maggie what's seven plus three
she got right all right let's see your
answers guys well both Maggie and the
kids get off to a flying start 10-4
yes after four rounds the Jack Russell
is still neck and neck with the kids six
divided by three now the teacher raises
the stakes
75 we divided by 25 equals she got it
good
I think we're tied should we do a
tiebreaker how one tiebreaker it's all
down to the last question can this dog
beat a class of seven-year-old children
maths
9/3 you know what the answer to that is
Maggie alright having cameras hold it up
bizarrely Maggie fails on one of the
simplest problems of the test three so
happy campers would get the last point
final total eleven to ten finally the
children of the out-of-door Academy beat
the seven-year-old Jack Russell but it
was a close-run thing he was really good
my dog at home um um can't do it any
math that dog was awesome I never laid a
dog could do math like that she was
amazing so on the face of it maggie is a
match for a class of seven year-olds